Paul Pogba scores as Man Utd beat Leicester 2-1 - Jose Mourinho praises captain
From: https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/45053886

Paragraph 0
Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho praised "monster" Paul Pogba after he captained the side and scored the opening goal in the win over Leicester City on the first day of the Premier League season.

Paragraph 1
Pogba - linked with Barcelona this summer - was a surprise starter only four days after his return to training, having won the World Cup with France just under a month ago.

Paragraph 2
The hosts made a flying start at Old Trafford, winning a penalty in the second minute when Daniel Amartey handled Alexis Sanchez's deflected shot.

Paragraph 3
Pogba stepped up and, after a typically nonchalant slow run-up, placed the ball in the top-right corner above Kasper Schmeichel.

Paragraph 4
Left-back Luke Shaw then scored the first senior goal of his career after controlling Juan Mata's aerial pass to double their lead.

Paragraph 5
Substitute Jamie Vardy headed a late consolation for Leicester after Ricardo Perreira's cross had hit a post, and Foxes goalkeeper Schmeichel came forward for an injury-time corner but his header went wide.

Paragraph 6
Pogba lasted 84 minutes before being replaced by Marouane Fellaini, but Mourinho said he did not expect the Frenchman to play for so long.

Paragraph 7
"Pogba was a monster," said the United boss. "We thought maximum 60 minutes but he managed over 80.

Paragraph 8
"The decision belonged to Paul. I asked him and he made himself available and he was very good."

Paragraph 9
Pogba steals the headlines

Paragraph 10
Pogba brought his World Cup form into the opening stages, producing a couple of excellent early passes before the opening goal.

Paragraph 11
A penalty was fairly awarded with Amartey's arm high when he handled - although the video assistant referee was not an option to review the decision, with the Premier League the only one of Europe's top five leagues not using the system this year.

Paragraph 12
Pogba - with two stars shaved into his scalp to celebrate France's second World Cup win - had a brief word with Alexis Sanchez before deciding to take the kick himself.

Paragraph 13
After an unusual staggered run-up, he scored, although his celebrations were muted. He has now scored in his last two games - his previous match being the World Cup final when he was on target in a 4-2 win over Croatia.

Paragraph 14
By the time he was replaced by Fellaini in the latter stages, at 2-0 up and seemingly safe, he had touched the ball more times and played more passes than any of his team-mates.

Paragraph 15
He came off to handshakes from the bench after a good job well done.

Paragraph 16
"I didn't have any pre-season games, I came back on Monday so it was very hard for the legs," said Pogba.

Paragraph 17
"Winning the World Cup is in the past. I like challenges, I want to progress and win more trophies."

Paragraph 18
How did United's unfamiliar faces do?

Paragraph 19
United got their season off to a winning start but their performance, after a promising opening, left plenty of questions unanswered.

Paragraph 20
Mourinho has appeared grumpy all summer after failing to sign any of his centre-back targets - including Leicester's Harry Maguire, who played the full 90 minutes at Old Trafford.

Paragraph 21
The Red Devils fielded an unfamiliar back four, with Eric Bailly and Victor Lindelof - who played a total of 99 minutes together last season - in the centre and Shaw and Matteo Darmian on the sides.

Paragraph 22
Both centre-backs did well to deal with the threat of bustling Leicester forward Kelechi Iheanacho, although Darmian was given a torrid time by Demarai Gray in the first half.

Paragraph 23
Shaw took advantage of his chance with his first goal since England Under-17s' 4-0 win over Lithuania in 2011. He took on Mata's high pass, beat Ricardo and then poked the ball beyond Schmeichel.

Paragraph 24
"Luke's game was very complete, even if I forget the goal," said Mourinho. "He made maybe one mistake defensively in the whole match and the linesman could have helped him with a free-kick. He just has to keep going."

Paragraph 25
Shaw - who has had a difficult time at United - said: "I don't want to speak too soon after one game but I want to be up there with the best left-backs in the world. I have the foundations to do that here with the manager and my team-mates."

Paragraph 26
Fred, a £47m signing from Shakhtar Donetsk, was United's only debutant and looked solid - with passing accuracy of 92.3% - although he was booked for fouling James Maddison.

Paragraph 27
He was partnered in midfield by fellow Brazilian Andreas Pereira, who also turned in a steady performance on his first Premier League start.

Paragraph 28
Marcus Rashford started up front, with Romelu Lukaku on the bench, although he did not have a single touch in the box or attempt a shot.

Paragraph 29
How did Leicester look?

Paragraph 30
Foxes boss Claude Puel was thought to be in danger of being sacked this summer, but the club's owners instead backed him in a £100m spending spree.

Paragraph 31
Maddison, a £20m recruit from Norwich after 14 Championship goals last season, looked good in the first half - playing plenty of passes in dangerous areas, as well as testing De Gea from 16 yards out.

Paragraph 32
Ricardo was also bright before the break on the right wing - and had a shot saved by the United keeper, before having a hand in Vardy's late goal.

Paragraph 33
Another debutant, Rachid Ghezzal - Riyad Mahrez's summer replacement - came on in the second half, as did goalscorer Vardy.

Paragraph 34
Vardy's England team-mate Maguire was solid at the back for Leicester but unable to cause any of the mayhem he unleashed at the World Cup in the opposition box.

Paragraph 35
Where he failed, Schmeichel almost succeeded when he headed Ben Chilwell's corner just wide. Only five goalkeepers, including Kasper's father Peter, have scored in the Premier League.

Paragraph 36
Man of the match - Paul Pogba

Paragraph 37
'We deserved a minimum of a draw' - what they said

Paragraph 38
Former United boss David Moyes on BBC Radio 5 live: "If you were picking the fixtures for United in the first nine or 10 games, you're not playing City, United, Chelsea. I wonder with Jose's words the other day - 'let's wait until November' - I'd be very surprised if United weren't top of the league come the end of November."

Paragraph 39
Leicester boss Claude Puel to BBC Sport: "It was a good game, a good performance from my team. Certainly we lacked more energy in the second half. That's normal for the first game. 

Paragraph 40
"We conceded an early goal, it was harsh. It was not a good result but it's a good performance. We gave our best against a great team. We deserved a different result - we deserved a minimum of a draw."

Paragraph 41
Match stats - Pogba's joint record with Babel

Paragraph 42
What's next?

Paragraph 43
United go to Brighton next Sunday (16:00 BST) in the second round of games, with Leicester hosting promoted Wolves on Saturday (15:00 BST).

